Thank you guys for coming out to
learn about replacing your old style
Windows and Dialogs with NiB files.
Now, what are we talking about when we're
talking about old style Dialogs?
Well, specifically,
this refers to using the Dialog
Manager and the Resource Manager to
pull in your Dialogs,
and then using APIs like Modal Dialog
to go into a modal situation and
handle all the dispatching yourself.
So some of the things I hope you learned
today is how to move your existing
resource-based user interface up to NiBs
by getting them into Interface Builder.
Then we'll talk about getting into
simplifying your event handling
using the new technologies that are
available in the high-level toolbox.
I want you also to start
using the standard window
handler if you're not already.
And this is so the toolbox can
provide standard behaviors for
you and eliminate a lot of code
that you need to take care of.
And also, you'll learn why you'll
need to adopt HIView.
The steps of getting your user
interface up to a modern-- into a
NiB and using the modern technology
in the toolbox are pretty simple.
First, you need to import
your dialogs into NIBs.
And you can do this using an importer
that's built into Interface Builder.
Now, I specifically talk about getting
it in from your resource files,
but the same techniques
will apply after that,
regardless of how you built
your interface using a
flattened interface format.
Then at runtime,
you'll actually need to load
in that interface and display
it on the screen for the user.
Then you need to rewrite
how you handle events,
because the old way of handling events
using modal dialog isn't going to
work once you import it up to Nibs.
And then if you're using modality
because you're putting up a
dialog that needs to interact
with a user in a modal situation,
there's a different way of dealing with
modality that I'll talk about as well.
And then finally,
if you have custom content that's
being drawn in your dialog,
we're going to encourage
you to start using HIViews,
specifically for performance.
If you switch into compositing mode,
this has to be done.
Why would you want to convert to Nibs?
Why do you want to make this transition?
The single biggest reason is because
we're doing a lot of work in the
toolbox to improve performance,
give you new features like new
widgets that are now available,
and the Dialog Manager and using all
the resources to build your interface,
it just won't cut it.
Localization is also easier.
If you've built your
interface with resources,
generally how you ship those
is by packaging the resource
with the application.
And when you need to localize,
you need to build a separate version
of your application to deploy.
Using NIBs, and actually specifically
using application bundles,
this is so much easier because you can
localize your application in the NIB,
and then you can deploy one
binary or package across
from different localizations.
Maintenance of building your
interface and modifying it is so
much easier when you're using NIBs.
If you're using the
Dialog Manager right now,
you're probably aware of all the
problems if you need to delete an item
that's in your dialog or add an item,
and you have to keep the dialog item
list in sync with the numbers that your
code thinks that those dialog items are.
And that can just be a nightmare.
Also,
we're adding new features in the toolbox.
And as we do this, these features will be
added to Interface Builder,
and you can just use
them in your interface.
Building your interface
with IB is so much easier,
also.
We have Aqua interface
guidelines that are built in.
So previously,
when you were building your interface,
you would have to look
at the HI guidelines,
figure out exactly how many pixels
the button needs to be from this other
button and to the edge of the window.
Well, all of this is built
into Interface Builder.
And I'll give you a demonstration
of how you can do that.
You can also test your
interface immediately.
And then once you get your interface
loaded and start handling events,
it's just so much easier.
And I'm sure you'll agree.
Some of the things that
Guy mentioned in the last session
was about compositing mode.
Now, this is a huge win in
terms of performance.
Compositing mode is based
on invalidation model,
so you're not doing unnecessary
drawing and redrawing controls
more often than necessary.
It also allows overlapping of views,
and if you saw the demo before the
machine crashed in the last session,
you were able to see all these
views that were rotating.
Some you could actually see through
because they were translucent.
And it just gives--it's a
better experience for the user,
and it also gives better performance.
So the first step of getting up into
the modern toolbox is to get your
interface into Interface Builder.
You can do this one of two ways.
If you have a resource-based
user interface,
you can import that, like I mentioned,
in Interface Builder
from the Import menu.
Or you could go about building
your interface manually.
I'll talk about why you might
want to do that in a moment.
But if you need to import
your resource-based interface,
it's just really easy.
From the File menu--
You select to import your resource file.
You select which objects to import.
with the dialog that pops up.
Once you select which objects to import,
you hit it,
and then Interface Builder will create
a new NiB and pull in your interface.
It's also really nice because
if you have controls that
are embedded in your dialogs,
this will all just be pulled in
automatically by the importer.
Alternatively,
you can build the interface manually.
And you might want to do
this because your interface
was perhaps poorly designed,
or maybe it didn't quite follow
the Aqua interface guidelines,
and you want to start taking advantage of
the guides that are in Interface Builder.
Or maybe you just want to start
taking advantage and adopting new
widgets that are available right now.
Either method you choose,
once it's in Interface Builder,
the steps are the same.
You can bring up the Inspector window
and start editing control properties.
You can also take advantage of a
technology called HIView Layouts.
And this means that you can
set layouts in the sense of
how they are bound to its,
like for a view,
how it's bound to its parent.
So as you resize a window,
these can all be handled by reflowing
the contents of your window.
This can all be handled
using HIView Layouts,
and you don't have to
write any code to do this.
Also, in the interface,
you can assign HIView IDs,
and that's so you can
access your controls,
and HI commands,
which are going to be sent when certain
actions are performed in your interface.
Also make sure, once your interface is
in Interface Builder,
that you have turned on the
standard window handler.
Now what this does is it allows
the toolbox to take care of
all of the mundane stuff,
the stuff that everybody has to do,
like resizing the window or
dragging the window around.
And it will handle control tracking,
like when the user clicks in the window,
it will handle what controls are
tracked and then let you know that
something interesting has happened.
And then you can also test the interface
and make sure that everything works
out the way you want it to work.
So that step is fairly easy.
Just get it into Interface Builder,
save out that NiB file.
Now, at runtime,
how do you actually load that interface?
There's just really easy steps.
You have to first get
a reference to the NiB.
Then if you have a menu
bar that's in the NiB,
you just go ahead and you load that
in and set that for your application.
You also extract the windows
by just using a very simple
API to get your window out.
Now this will pull in all of the controls
that are associated with that window and
instantiate them at that time as well.
And finally, after you get the
information out of that Nib,
you release the reference
to the Nib and you're done.
And you do this using these APIs.
To create a NiB reference,
you just call the API,
createNibReference,
and you pass in the name of your
NiB minus the .Nib extension.
If you have a menu bar in
there and you want to set that
menu bar for your application,
you call the API, setMenubarFromNib.
Now I want to pull
into one of my windows.
So I call createWindow from NiB,
passing in the name of my window.
This window is going to be
pulled in from your NiB,
but keep in mind that
for performance reasons,
because maybe you need
to pre-flight the dialog,
you know, add some information
into some text fields,
for instance,
the window is initially invisible.
So if you want it to show,
you have to call showWindow.
Finally, when you're done,
just use the API DisposeNibReference.
You don't need to cache this
NiB reference for later use.
In fact, it's just better.
When you're done using it,
just dispose it.
If you need to use it again,
go ahead and create another
NiB reference to that NiB.
So once you have your interface loaded,
how do I actually access
the items that are in there?
This too is just really easy
using Interface Builder.
If you select on a control or any item
in your interface in Interface Builder,
you can bring up the Inspector window
and go look at the control segment of it.
And you can assign a control ID or
an HIView ID to that control.
Now a control ID is a signature,
which is four character code.
And keep in mind with
four character codes,
all lower cases reserved for Apple use,
and all mixed and upper case,
you can use as much as you want.
And then also an ID.
So you can use signatures to represent
all of one type of control and an
ID for each individual control in
that segment of your interface,
for instance.
And then at runtime, programmatically,
you would use the API HIView find by ID.
And that's so you can actually find
that control in the interface and
grab a reference to the control.
In code, this is how you do it.
You define an HIView ID,
which represent the signature and
ID that you set in Interface Builder.
You call the HIView findByID API,
and it returns your
control reference to you,
and you can just go to town,
do whatever you need to
do with that control.
So let's go take a quick demo,
and I'll show you those initial steps of
importing your interface and then loading
that interface into your application.
Before I get started,
I have to give you a standard disclaimer.
I am not a user interface
designer at all.
I just sit at my computer and I punch
numbers in to make this stuff work.
So while what you see may amaze you
and astound you of how brilliant it is,
I really highly recommend you don't
design your interface like this.
So let's say that I wanted to have a
really fast music editing application.
So I just whip something
up really fast in Carbon.
And it looks something like this.
Okay, now, actually, I mean,
this is just a mock-up.
It doesn't really do anything.
I mean,
the only thing it does really well
is not get the spinning cursor.
But if I want to get information
about a song that I've created,
I go down to my Song Info,
and I bring up a dialog.
Now this dialog is loaded
in from a resource,
and then it's using modal dialog
to actually do some information.
So any song info palette wouldn't
be complete without having a
really cool equalizer view in it,
so you can see the equalizer.
So at this point, I go here.
Now this is my user interface skills,
like, behold, Quick Draw rectangles.
Don't do this in your interface,
it's just a demo.
But you can choose different
equalizer settings.
Oh, it's so beautiful, so cool.
And because last time you
blew out your dad's speakers,
you want to be able to clip
the sound at certain areas,
so we go track when you want to,
you know,
how loud the volume can get before
it starts clipping the music off.
I don't know if this is how
real music programs work,
it just makes a really good demo.
So while the interface may look simple,
clicking around does some things,
there's actually a lot of code
going on behind the scenes to
actually get this up and running.
And then your boss comes in and says,
I need you to create some new
summary information in there,
like a text field that you can
type as much as you want in.
And you're thinking, man,
using the Dialog Manager,
how am I going to do that?
This might be a great opportunity
to start learning about NIBs.
So let's actually go look at the code,
see what I'm doing in here.
This is a big
wait-next-event-based application.
And I just want to prove to you that you
can do all of these steps in piecemeal.
You don't have to convert all
of your application at once.
You can do one dialog at a time.
So I'm going to maintain this as a
big wait-next-event-based application.
When I create that dialog-- so you
can see there's a lot of code that's
being run here-- I'm using the
Resource Manager to get a new dialog,
I set up the dialog,
and when I go do that,
I actually-- I took that area where
I was doing the custom drawing,
that's just a user pane.
So I'm installing a user pane draw proc,
so when the dialog needs
to repaint that area,
it calls my draw proc, which is where I'm
doing my custom drawing.
Then after it's set up,
I call modal dialog.
Now I pass in a modal filter proc
because I actually want to handle
behavior in that custom area as well,
and that was to modify
that clipping thing.
Then when ModoDialog returns,
I'm switching off of the item that
was returned in order to figure
out how to modify the interface.
So there's a lot of
code going on in here,
and I want to eliminate that,
especially since I have to add new
features because my boss told me to.
So let's learn how to do that.
In Interface Builder,
we go to the File menu, Import,
Import Resource File.
We select our resource.
It asks which dialogs and
menus do I want to pull in.
For this example, I only have one dialog,
so I only want to import
that single dialog.
Hit Import.
Creates a new nib,
slams that window into there.
Let's go look at that interface now.
So you can see it did a very good job.
That's exactly what the
interface looked like.
Now we have to do some triage.
Maybe there's some things
that didn't import correctly.
In my case, when I set up the resource,
I had to go through some hoops to
actually get that pop-up button in there.
And Interface Builder displays
this as a custom control.
So I could go in and rebuild that
by creating a new pop-up in here,
but I've already done that in
a separate NiB to keep this
demo kind of rolling along.
So I'm just going to put that in here.
I also decide that I want to
pre-populate this stuff so
I don't have to do this in code.
So I can do all of this within Interface
Builder by setting this stuff up.
I also encode, initially,
when I was setting up the dialog,
I'm calling setDialogDefaultItem
and setDialogCancelItem in order so
the dialog manager knows which items
are the default and cancel items.
Well,
I can do that with an Interface Builder
by selecting just a button in this
little interface inspector window.
This is going to be the cancel button.
I want to make sure that
I have the standard handler on,
because this is what's going
to handle all of my low-level
events for me for free.
And then I want to start mucking
around and see that you can
see these interface guides.
Like,
you can see that my window was probably
laid out incorrectly in the first place.
So you can see that Interface
Builder presents these guides,
tells you how far away the controls
need to be from each other.
Some new features I want
to take advantage of,
perhaps,
are to make the window resizable.
So I click that.
[Transcript missing]
Binding to the right and the bottom.
Doing the same for this view,
the right and the bottom.
Binding to the right and the bottom.
Doing the same for this view,
the right and the bottom.
Binding to the right and the bottom.
Doing the same for this view,
the right and the bottom.
And just so it's not confusing,
I'm going to add a text
field here that says Notes.
We can run the interface-- we can
test the interface with the Interface
Builder by just allowing it to run.
It brings up a simulator.
You can see that there's the window.
I can go ahead and type.
Now, I've done no code yet.
This is just interface construction.
One other thing I recall that I want
to do is these text fields are
using the old Edit Text Control,
and I want to get some
really cool anti-aliasing,
so I want to use the
Edit Unicode Text Control,
which is just a checkbox over here.
And finally,
I decide that I want to save this.
This is my interface.
I need to save it out.
So I hit Save.
Give it a name, where to save it.
And the integration between Interface
Builder and Xcode is excellent.
It knows that I have a project
up already and that I want to
embed that NiB in that project.
So I go ahead and add it.
Now, I need to actually write some
code to drive this interface.
Now, in my main code,
I was pulling up that, that dialog.
Now, when I say new way, I say new,
but I don't mean it's
like a lot of work to do.
It's very simple.
I create a NiB reference to my NiB.
I extract the window from that NiB.
I show it, dispose the NiB reference,
and we're done.
Let's cross our fingers
and make sure this builds.
There we go.
We have my same familiar interface.
I want to bring up my song info.
And boom.
There it is.
The interface works.
I wrote no code to actually
initialize these text fields.
All the behavior works.
I can drag these things around.
You can see that my pop-up is
here and does correct tracking.
And I've written no code.
So let's move back to
the slides and move on.
I can drag these things around.
You can see that my pop-up is
here and does correct tracking.
And I've written no code.
So let's move back to
the slides and move on.
Make sure that the standard
window handler is on.
That allows you to resize your window,
move the window around without
writing any code to do that work.
Make sure that the standard
window handler is on.
That allows you to resize your window,
move the window around without
writing any code to do that work.
Now it's not,
I mean it's kind of brain dead.
There's only seven APIs in there,
and three of them are
associated with NiB management.
So there's only four APIs getting
your interface out of there.
So we had an interface
that was up and running,
but it didn't actually
do anything interesting.
So it doesn't do exactly what
the interface was doing when
it was dialogue manager based,
because I had a whole bunch of code
that was behind that running it.
So now we need to start handling events.
Now the old way of handling events,
whether using modal
dialog or wait-next event,
is using this model.
You, the application,
go sit in an event loop and start
pulling events out of the queue.
Then you figure out where
that event needs to go,
so you start dispatching it.
Was it in a window?
By calling findWindow.
If it was in the window,
is it in the control?
You call findControl.
And then you start tracking
the control if you need to.
And then you tell, finally,
tell the toolbox what it is that you did.
Now, this is cumbersome because you're
writing a lot of boilerplate code.
Everybody's got to do it.
It seems like a really nice place
that this gets implemented in the
toolbox and let us do the work.
So this is the new model of doing events.
And when I say new, I mean, like,
Carbon event forward.
You tell the toolbox what events
you're interested in hearing about.
The toolbox sits in its own event loop,
figures out where these
things need to go,
and then dispatches them to
you if you're interested in it.
So it makes the model so much easier.
You're not doing all of this extra
boilerplate code that you don't need to,
and you get notified only about the
events that you're interested in.
So events are separated into
different classes and kinds.
There's about a dozen or so
different classes of types of events,
like control, window, command events.
And then they're split
into different kinds.
So what kind of event
that class referred to.
I hope that made sense.
So for example,
in the case when you need to be
notified when the enabled state
of your control has changed,
you register for a K event class control,
K event control enabled
state changed event.
So it's interesting,
but how do you actually
go about doing that?
Like I mentioned earlier,
you specify the events
that you're interested in.
Then you install a handler
on an event target.
Now, an event target is where these
events are going to be sent to.
And there's various targets,
like there's control targets, user focus,
window, application.
And when I say installing a handler,
what you're really doing at that
point is telling the toolbox,
I'm interested in these events.
Call my callback when
these events come in.
So then you go implement the handler.
So when your callback is called,
what do you need to happen to
your interface at that point?
And then events can go through
different propagation routes.
So for example,
when commands come into your handler,
if you don't handle that event,
you want it to continue
out and propagating,
because maybe the toolbox will
give you some free behavior.
So the return value controls
how that event is propagated.
If you return event not handled error,
propagation will continue,
and maybe the toolbox
will handle it for you.
And any other value of return
will terminate propagation.
It's as if you handled it and we're done.
So let's walk through an
example of doing that.
Like I mentioned,
an HI command is a high-level
type of event to signify that
some command has happened.
You don't care where the event came from,
you just want to handle
this type of event.
A good example is if you had a
new button in your interface.
Within Interface Builder,
you would select the new button,
you'd go into the Inspector window,
and you can assign a
command to that button.
So when the user clicks on the button,
this new command is sent
to your application.
Anu is a standard HI command,
so you can select it from the pop-up.
You can also create your
own types of commands.
Then in code, you specify what events
you're interested in.
Now, you pass in an array to our APIs,
but in this particular example,
I'm only interested in
an HIV command event.
So I'm interested in the class command,
command process event.
Then I want to hear this on
the application event target,
because like I mentioned,
the commands can be sent
to the user focus target,
and if that doesn't handle it,
it'll go out to the window,
and if the window doesn't handle it,
it'll go out to the application.
So the application is kind
of a catch-all for commands.
So I'm going to install my handler
onto the application event handler,
on the application event target,
excuse me.
And then I tell it that
I'm interested in it,
or I want it to call my
callback handler at this point.
So you load your interface in,
the user is using it,
and then he clicks on the new button.
The HICommand is sent,
the toolbox calls your
command event handler.
There's different information
packed in that event,
and all of this is documented
within the CarbonEvent.h header.
So it'll tell you as events
come in what type of information
is packaged in the event.
In this case, there's an HI command.
So we call getEventParameter to
extract the HI command from the event.
And then we can switch
what kind of event it was.
In this case,
we see that it was a new event.
So we go and we create
our new document window.
So now we talked about dealing with
events within your user interface.
How do you deal with Dialog modality?
I'm sure most of your Dialogs
have had to deal with modality.
Basically,
in the old way of doing things,
you were calling Modal Dialog in a loop
and handling updates using a filter proc.
And for one reason or another,
we changed things so that didn't work,
and you had to install update
Carbon event handlers on your
non-front windows in order
to get the update events.
So you'd have to write these
Carbon event handlers for other Windows.
And if you're going to do that,
you might as well just start doing things
the way we expect you and want you to do.
Go through the steps I've
talked about already.
Convert your dialog to a Nib.
Use the standard OK and Cancel commands
for your OK and Cancel buttons.
Make your interface Carbon event driven
by using the standard HI commands,
or you can even use your own event
command classes that you define yourself.
And when you need to be modal,
use the API runAppModalLoopForWindow.
This will put your window
into a modal situation,
and that function will not return until
quitAppModalLoopForWindow is called.
And I'll show you an
example of how to do that.
And then, eventually,
you'd start using Sheets.
Instead of going AppModal,
you might just need to go WindowModal.
So where it's appropriate,
we encourage you to use
Sheets to get Window modality.
So let's walk through an example
of using modality in this fashion.
This is very similar to the
previous HI command example I gave.
In this case, again,
we only will go out of the modal
situation when the OK button is clicked,
which sends out a command event.
So in this case,
we're doing the same thing by registering
for a command command process event.
And also when we install
a handler for a target,
one of the parameters is a void star.
So we can pass anything we want there,
and then when our callback is called,
that void star is returned to us.
So I'm taking advantage of that in this
particular example by passing in the
window as that void star parameter.
Then I call run AppModelLoopForWindow.
Now as I mentioned, this function is not
going to return until quit
AppModelLoopForWindow is called.
So the event system takes over,
starts dispatching
events as they come in,
and then when we're in here,
perhaps the user clicks on the OK button.
At that time,
your event handler is called.
And as I mentioned,
we passed in our window in
the void star parameter.
So we cast that to our window
because we know that's our window.
Again, we extract the event parameter.
We check to see that it was the OK,
with a standard OK command, which it was.
And we go ahead and we call quit app
modal loop for window at that point.
When this function returns,
your previous call to run app
modal loop for window will return,
and you can continue
processing with your app.
So that's how you would deal
with modality in this new world.
So, custom content.
In my example,
I had that really cool equalizer
area over there in that dialog.
And how am I going to start
dealing with that now,
using this new way of handling dialogs?
You need to think about
two different paths here.
Do you want to remain
non-compositing or go compositing?
Now,
the advantages of compositing are great.
In terms of performance,
it's an invalidation model,
so you're not constantly
redrawing when you don't need to.
You also can have overlapping views.
It doesn't look ugly because the
controls are erasing behind themselves.
If you want to continue using
non-compositing windows and you're doing
all of your drawing and user panes,
it's okay.
But we prefer that you actually start
using HIViews because this is what we're
focusing our energy on moving forward.
Especially if you're using compositing
or drawing directly to the window,
you have to start taking
advantage of HIViews.
So you'll have to write your own
custom views to do this custom content
and then embed that in the window.
I'm not going to go into any detail
about how to write your own HIView.
Actually, David's going to cover that
tomorrow in Session 433,
Modernizing Your Custom Controls
to Use HIView.
So I'm not going to go any further
about describing how to do that,
but I will use this in my example
and just show you how to use a
pre-made HIView as custom content.
So, like I mentioned when I was
walking through my example,
the old way of dealing with your
dialog was during initialization,
if you had this custom content,
you would set a drawing proc,
and that was to deal with a drawing.
And then when you needed to go into the
event loop and start handling events,
you would call modal dialogue with a
filter proc if you needed to handle
any tracking in your custom content.
And so at that point,
you'd be handling some behavior.
You'd be handling the
behavior of tracking.
And then once you return
from modal dialog,
you'd get this item hit,
and you'd start handling behavior there,
too.
So there's different areas of code.
And then in some cases,
you'd actually be installing an
action proc to deal with live actions,
too.
So there's different areas of your code
where you're dealing with this behavior.
And all of the behavior
you write for one dialog,
you can't easily rip out and just
go throw into another dialog.
So like I've been saying,
the new way of doing
things is using HIView.
I mean, I just can't stress enough
how cool this technology is,
because it encapsulates the
behavior and the appearance of
your custom view all in one module.
So I don't even have to
know what the module does.
Like Joe Schmo can create one for me,
and I can pull it in,
add it to my project,
and it'll just work,
because I don't care about tracking
myself or anything like that.
So you can create the
HIView in one of two ways.
If you take your HIView and you
install it or register it with
the HIObject subclassing system
during app initialization,
then you can provide a class
ID in Interface Builder.
So in Interface Builder,
you can pull in a custom HIView.
Interface Builder knows
nothing about this view.
But you add a class ID,
and then when you create that
window in your application,
it will go through and
instantiate that view.
It's really cool to do that.
And then alternatively,
you can embed it programmatically.
You can create one yourself and then
embed it in the dialog or window using
one of the HIView add subview APIs,
for example.
Now I should note here,
Guy mentioned this in the
previous session also,
but I should note that, you know,
creating your own custom views,
there's a lot of the same
code that you have to do,
and there's a lot of
setup associated with it.
So we've written something
we call HIFramework,
which is a C++ mini
framework for the toolbox,
and it makes the task of creating
your own custom view really simple.
And it's provided as sample code,
so you can go through all of the code,
see what it's doing, extend it yourself,
add modifications if you need to.
So let's go back to the demo machine,
and we'll start plugging in the behavior
and pulling in our custom area in order
to get the custom content drawing.
So I'm going to go back
to Interface Builder.
I'm going to assign standard
commands to my interface.
So I told you earlier that I want you
to start taking advantage of these
standard commands that are available.
So for the OK button in
the Inspector window,
I'm going down to the Command pop-up,
and I'm going to select
OK because it's the OK button.
For the Cancel button,
I'm going to go select Cancel.
So I told you earlier that I want you
to start taking advantage of these
standard commands that are available.
So for the OK button in
the Inspector window,
I'm going down to the Command pop-up,
So I told you earlier that I want you
to start taking advantage of these
standard commands that are available.
So for the OK button in
the Inspector window,
I'm going down to the Command pop-up,
and I'm going to select
OK because it's the OK button.
For the Cancel button,
I'm going to go select Cancel.
I want to install a window event handler
on it to handle the OK or Cancel command.
So I install my Window Event Handler,
telling it to call this call
back when that event comes in.
Then I call runAppModelLoop for window.
This function does not return
until quitAppModelLoop is called.
So it'll go around dandy, you know,
handle events, do everything on its own,
and then the user clicks Cancel or OK.
My event handler is going
to be called at this point.
So it'll go around dandy, you know,
handle events, do everything on its own,
and then the user clicks Cancel or OK.
My event handler is going
to be called at this point.
So it'll go around dandy, you know,
handle events, do everything on its own,
and then the user clicks Cancel or OK.
My event handler is going
to be called at this point.
If I click Cancel or OK,
the dialog goes away.
So we can see that that worked.
Hooray!
But there's still that custom
area that we want to deal with.
So, it's pretty obvious that I'm
just using Quick Draw rectangles,
and I have no idea how to
make a really cool interface.
So, I went off and I wrote this
really cool Aqua interface,
and it's just encapsulated by itself.
I don't even need to know
what the code itself does.
I just pull it into my project.
and it's called EQView for Equalizer.
[Transcript missing]
You need to register the view at
application initialization time.
So during initialization,
I would call that function,
and that goes through and
registers the view with the
HIObject subclassing system.
And then it provides me the signature
that this view is going to be.
So let me walk back over
to Interface Builder.
I can't use user pages anymore,
so I ditch that.
I bring up this control,
pull over an HIView,
throw that in the interface,
And then if you go look here
in the Attributes field,
it has a field for a Class ID.
And then if you go look here
in the Attributes field,
it has a field for a Class ID.
The other thing that the writer of
this module has told me is that this
view is going to respond to certain
commands that are sent to the window.
So I don't have to plug anything in,
it's going to just
handle events on its own.
And these are the events that
it's interested in handling,
when you change the equalizer settings,
for instance.
So that's why I did some hand-waving
when I pulled out this pop-up button.
I've set all of this up already.
So when you select the classic item,
it's going to send out this command,
rock, et cetera.
[Transcript missing]
Let's go ahead and save it.
Let's build it and run.
Let's go check out my interface.
And now we get this custom area drawing.
Now that too, I mean,
this is still me making it, you know,
it's still pretty ugly,
but it's a lot better because when you
select a different equalizer setting,
it just automatically responds.
It's a new equalizer setting.
That's just like, that's cool.
And then for sound clipping,
if I turn this on,
it responds to that too.
And then furthermore,
it handles tracking on its own.
I didn't have to write
any special code for this.
This is all handled by the view itself.
And something I didn't show earlier,
but as I resize the window,
because the HIView layouts
were set in the NiB,
the OK and Cancel buttons are
also just reflowed automatically.
I mean, this was very easy code to
write and get up and going.
So you have to adopt this.
It's just-- it's the greatest thing ever.
So let's go back to slides.
In that last step,
all I did was I made my
interface Carbon event driven,
and I did that by adding commands
within the Inspector window
in Interface Builder.
And to go modal, I use the API run app
modal loop for window,
and this is how you would deal with
modality rather than using modal dialog.
In fact,
when you pull in a window from a NiB,
it's not a dialog anyway,
so you can't really call
modal dialog using that.
Implement your custom content as HIViews.
That new view I just pulled in.
Somebody gave this module to me.
I plugged it in.
I added a few features to make it
respond to commands or make commands
sense that it's going to respond to.
And it just worked automatically.
And that custom view was written,
so I'm told, with HIVramework,
which made it just really
easy to write that as well.
Of course,
using Dialogs in this type of modality,
this is just a really small case
of what we would encourage you
to do for your application also.
Rather than using WaitNext Event for
your event processing,
we want you to get onto using
Run Application Event Loop.
This is going to start dispatching
events for you and help you
eliminate your use of WaitNext Event.
We want you to start eliminating
all of these old APIs because we
have really excellent replacements
for them using the new technologies
that we put in the toolbox.
These APIs encourage a more
efficient use of resources.
When you start using run
application event loop,
you don't get idle time using that API,
so you install Carbon event loop timers,
which will call you back.
So you can give fine-grained control
of when you need to be called
back and make your application
more efficient on the system.
And then we want you to use new
technologies that we've created,
such as Sheets.
It makes your interface
just so much better.
So I've been talking a lot about this
stuff and encouraging you to do this,
but you're probably thinking this
transition might be really difficult
for me to do for my interface.
And I just want to tell you
that that's not the case.
In fact,
Navigation Services went through this
transition in a Panther time frame.
And I'd like to bring up Bryan Prusha
to talk about that right now.
Thank you, Curt.
Now, as Curt just mentioned,
as I'm sure you all know,
Open and Save Dialogs went through
large amounts of changes in Panther,
and we added several new features,
including the sidebar, list view,
and the view history
forward and back buttons.
Now, we knew this was going to be a major
change for navigation services,
and we wanted to take this
as the opportunity to move
forward from resources to NIBs.
And once we made that change,
being based on NIBs made it
easier to adopt new features.
When we began the conversion,
we wanted to take an iterative approach.
The idea is to start with just
the simplest dialog possible and
convert it over first because it
doesn't have to be done all at once.
Convert that one dialog over
and just work out any kinks that
there may be in the process.
Just get used to the idea and then
go on to more complex dialogs.
We were able to very easily
write a little bit of wrapper
code that converted all our old
dialog item IDs to control IDs.
So we can continue referring to all our
controls as we always had in the past and
So continue referring to them
as we always have in the past,
minimizing code changes.
The next step is then taking
views that we created manually
in our code and having Interface
Builder do the work for us.
So when the window is
pulled out of the NiB,
those views are loaded automatically.
But the trick is we had
some custom views in there,
like the sidebar.
Interface Builder doesn't know
anything about the sidebar,
but as Curt showed us earlier,
we can use a custom HIView
control in Interface Builder,
add the HIV object class ID,
and Interface Builder,
even though it knows nothing
about our custom views,
could load it automatically.
So that was just code
we didn't have to write.
The next step,
as Guy alluded to in the last talk,
was the most fun:
adopting the standard event handler.
The reason this is fun is because
we could just click a checkbox in
Interface Builder and rip out tons
of custom event handling code.
For the most part,
in Navigation Services,
we're just interested in the
default behavior happening.
But in those cases where
somebody clicks on the sidebar
or the default button is hit,
something like that,
in those specific cases,
we just write a Carbon event
handler to listen to those events
and can ignore everything else.
We let Toolbox do the driving for us.
Now,
the next step with adding compositing
was definitely the largest step,
but it had the most benefits
in terms of performance.
Uh, because Navigation Services handles,
uh, has all--pretty much
all standard controls,
except for the couple of custom
controls that we designed
specifically with compositing in mind,
we could just go ahead and, uh,
click the checkbox in Interface
Builder and adopt compositing,
with two caveats.
The first was a change we had to make.
We had to do a little
bit of special code,
um, to deal with the change in, uh,
parent-relative, uh, coordinate spaces.
So we were no longer window-relative,
and we had a lot of, uh,
embedding in Navigation Services in
order to make sure that we were always,
uh, paying attention to what our
frame was relative to our
parent view and not the window.
The second thing is that Navigation
Services offers the ability for
clients to customize the dialog.
So there's a custom area in
the bottom of the dialog.
and clients had always been used
to this being non-compositing,
so we needed to maintain that behavior.
So we did have to add a
custom compatibility area
that remained non-compositing.
Now that Navigation
Services is based on NIBs,
we can take advantage of new
features in Interface Builder,
like HIView layouts.
and going through that process,
we could keep the, you know,
reflow the entire dialog as it's
resized without having to write
a whole lot of code at all.
Now, the results for Navigation
Services were great.
Compositing, in particular,
gave us about a 20% speed
boost loading the dialog.
There was so much redundant
drawing going on before that it
was just simply eliminated by the
one-pass draw model of HIView.
The speed boost is also apparent
in resizing the dialogs,
especially in the sheet mode,
despite the fact that
sheets went translucent,
because compositing mode is the
only way to get translucent sheets.
And really a great side benefit of
moving to these new technologies was that
bugs in navigation services were fixed.
Because we were removing code and
adopting a better drawing model,
little visual glitches and some
performance problems went away.
We handed all the code off to the
toolbox and let it do the driving.
So there was less code for us to test,
less code for there to be bugs in.
and overall it was a very
straightforward process,
actually smoother than
we thought it would go.
There were no real strong sticking points
or gotchas beyond just a couple of the
compositing changes that you need to
be aware of that I mentioned earlier.
So now that Navigation
Services is based on NiBs,
we can go ahead and adopt new features
as Interface Builder provides them.
So we're in a great
position going forward.
We really recommend that
you go through this process.
I think you'll find it
easier than you might expect,
and it will give you a lot of
benefits in the ability to add new
features now and in the future.
With that, I'd like to go back to Curt.
Basically, the reason I wanted Bryan to
come up and talk about the
Navigation Services transition
was because of a comment that
he made to me on the side was,
the biggest surprise about the transition
was that it wasn't that hard at all.
So I really encourage you to go through
this transition as you add more features
or when your boss says you need some new
lyric dialogue in your song info panel.
As you need to start adopting
these new technologies,
start converting it to the new stuff,
because this is where we're
focusing our attention.
So just start getting up to Nibs,
start handling HVAC commands
for your event dispatching,
make your whole interface
Carbon event driven,
and then start using all of these
APIs that do all the driving for you,
like Bryan mentioned.
Like run app modal loop
for window to go modal,
or run app application event
loop once you get your entire
interface to be Carbon event driven.
And then also keep in mind that you
will have to convert your custom content
to HIViews in order to take advantage
of compositing in your dialogues.
So please check out some more
information that's available.
Something that was really useful
in preparation for the demo was
on how to move your projects
from Code Warrior to Xcode.
Because once it was in Xcode,
the flexibility of actually using
Interface Builder with that,
it was pretty easy to use.
And then also the Interface Builder
services reference describes
actually how to get your interface
going within Interface Builder.
So with that, I'd like to bring up that
French guy over there.